# Exercise 3: Enterprise Scale

## Context

The Enterprise-Scale architecture is modular by design and allow organizations to start with foundational landing zones that support their application portfolios, regardless of whether the applications are being migrated or are newly developed and deployed to Azure. The architecture enables organizations to start as small as needed and scale alongside their business requirements regardless of scale point.
The Wing Tip company want to start with Landing Zones for their workload in Azure, where hybrid connectivity to their on-premise datacenter is not required from the start. 

#### Task 1: Deploy the Management Group structure using ARM template and Policy Set definitions

#### Task 2: Deploy Resources into ESLZ

#### Create a Key Vault and review Diagnostic settings

After deploying the ESLZ reference implementation (Wingtip), and bringing in a subscription for the platform management, policies are already assigned to ensure resources will have diagnostics/monitoring enabled.

1. Create a new Key Vault into the management subscription – into a new resource group.

2. Once you have started the deployment, monitor the Activity Log to see the policy effect. You should see “deployIfNotExists” Policy action even. 

3. Post a successful deployment of the KeyVault, you should start to see (approx. 6-10 minutes) another deployment resource appearing in the resource group.

4. Navigate to key vault and review the diagnostics settings, verify  if it is connected to your Log Analytics workspace.

5. Explore the Azure Monitor Insights view

#### Review Policy to your Landing Zone

As you saw in the previous task, policies ensures that security and compliance is being met regardless of how resources are being created. In this exercise, you will assign a new policy to ensure Key Vaults in the landing zones will always have soft-deletion enabled.

1. Navigate to Azure Policy and select the Online management group as scope.

2. Review the the policy definition **Append-KV-SoftDelete** and check what the policy will do on KeyVault resources.


..Incomplete
